  
Name: Sourab Rustagi

Contact
 +918470894772 (Mobile)
 sourabh.rustagi@hotmail.com
 www.linkedin.com/in/sourabhrustagi

Top Skills
 Dialogflow
 Flux
 Service Mesh
 Languages
 English (Full Professional)
 Hindi (Native or Bilingual)
 Certifications
 Python Practice: Collections
 SQL Practice: Intermediate Queries
 Decision-Making Strategies
 Realistic Strategies to Talk about
 Mental Health at Work
 Advanced Design Patterns: Design
 Principles
 Honors-Awards
 Process Orienter
 AWS Game day
 Sourabh Rustagi
 Distributed Systems | Cloud Aws/Azure | Kubernetes | .net | golang
 New Delhi, Delhi, India

 Summary
 As a Software Engineer and Cloud-Native Solutions Architect with
 12+ years of experience, I like to design and engineer scalable,
 distributed systems that are fault-tolerant, highly available, and
 optimized for real-time data processing. My expertise spans the
 implementation of microservices, cloud-native architectures, and
 clean code practice empowering organizations to achieve robust,
 modern software solutions using Dotnet,  javascript, 

I am a strong advocate of Kubernetes orchestration and GitOps
driven automation, delivering highly reliable, automated, and zero
downtime deployments. By leveraging CI/CD pipelines and DevOps
 best practices, I drive operational excellence, scalability, and
 accelerated delivery.
 Passionate about collaborative engineering, I lead teams in
 architecting solutions that not only meet today’s demands for
 responsiveness and security but also set the foundation for rapid
 innovation and growth.
 Let's connect to explore how modern engineering can help your
 organization scale and innovate

 Experience

 Samsung R&D Institute India
 Chief Engineer
 May 2024 - Present (1 year 5 months)
 Uttar Pradesh, India

  Confidential computing for deploying workloads 
  AI MLops works in Azure.
 Designed and developed a distributed chat application leveraging .NET and
 Microsoft Orleans, enabling real-time messaging and state management for
 over Multiple active users simultaneously.

  
Integrated Kafka for streaming and event-driven architecture, ensuring high
throughput and fault-tolerant communication between multiple microservices
 across the system.
 Implemented FoundationDB as a scalable, transactional data store of chat
 metadata and user state data
 Deployed the application on Kubernetes (EKS), utilizing GitOps practices with
 ArgoCD for automated and declarative deployments.
 Architected the system for scalability and fault tolerance, supporting key
 features such as message ordering, offline message delivery with zero data
 loss.

 TransUnion
 Senior Consultant
 June 2023 - May 2024 (1 year)
 India
 Designed and developed a scalable cloud migration solution by building
 microservices and deploying them on AWS using Terraform and Azure
 DevOps pipelines, improving deployment speed and reducing infrastructure
 provisioning time.
 Devised a migration plan to transition services to Kubernetes (EKS),
 incorporating service mesh and GitOps with Flux v2 for continuous delivery,
 improving deployment consistency and reducing deployment rollback
 incidents.
 Authored reusable Terraform modules to automate cloud infrastructure
 provisioning, empowering 10+ teams to independently spin up environments
 for their services.
 Developed secure, versioned REST APIs using .NET Core 6, adhering to
 CQRS, Dependency Injection (DI), SOLID principles, and Clean Architecture,
 resulting in code maintainability.
 Integrated and configured HashiCorp Vault for secure secrets management,
 including designing authentication flows and managing secrets.


 Saksoft
 
Lead Consultant
 April 2021 - June 2023 (2 years 3 months)
 Built robust Authentication and Authorization services/packages leveraging
 OAuth2 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) ans NuGet packages consumed by
 cross-functional teams, accelerating development.
 Developed secure, versioned REST APIs using .NET Core 6, adhering to
 CQRS, Dependency Injection (DI), SOLID principles, and Clean Architecture,
 resulting in code maintainability.


 Daffodil Software Ltd.
 Senior Associate IT
 April 2016 - April 2021 (5 years 1 month)
 Gurgaon, India
 Senior Software Developer. 
Project of the year awarded, Process Oriented
 Designed and implemented a scalable serverless architecture using AWS
 services such as Lambda, Cognito, API Gateway, CloudWatch, and S3.
 Developed custom FHIR servers tailored to specific business needs enabling
 compliance with healthcare regulations.
 Developed and deployed cloud-based applications leveraging AWS VPC and
 EC2 for secure and scalable hosting.
 Migrated standalone services to .NET Core ensuring compatibility with modern
 cloud environments, enabling smoother integration with future technologies.
 Inventra Technologies Pvt Ltd
 Software Developer
 July 2014 - March 2016 (1 year 9 months)
 Noida Area, India
 Employee of the year for the year 2015, 
Developed a B2B Travel Domain Application with a Booking Engine,
 integrating multiple APIs and Amadeus widget and white-label services
 Designed and developed database schema on a document-oriented
 MongoDB, optimizing for scalability and performance with 100+ collections.


  
Easy Trip Planners Pvt Ltd.
 Web Application Developer
 August 2013 - July 2014 (1 year)
 New Delhi Area, India
 Assisted in the development of travel applications, contributing to the
 successful launch of 3 major applications.
 Designed and developed services for mobile applications and web, enabling
 the platform to handle 100,000+ users and ensuring scalability to support
 future growth.
 Integrated Air Costa into the Booking Engine API into the application, enabling
 seamless bookings and reducing integration time by 30%, leading to faster
 integrations with all websites at once.
 Wrote efficient queries, procedures, triggers, and views on SQL Server,
 optimizing database performance and reducing query execution time by 35%
 Education
 Punjab Technical University
 Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.), Computer Science · (2009 - 2013)

 Mahbert High School
 ISC, Computer Science · (2007 - 2009)

 St. Joseph Convent School
 ICSE, All · (1995 - 2007)
 
 Page 4 of 4